---
title: "Mapo Ragù"
date: 2022-11-01T19:00:00+01:00
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/2022-11-01-mapo-ragu.jpg
  overlay_filter: rgba(52, 52, 52, 0.25)
categories:
  - Recipes
tags:
  - "Cuisine: Chinese"
  - "Type: Main"
---

This is my simple, everyday take on a dish developed at Momofuku Ssam Bar in Manhattan many years ago by the chefs David Chang and Tien Ho and their band of collaborators. It is almost literally a mashup: a meal that is kind of Korean, kind of Chinese, kind of Italian. If you don’t like spicy food, use miso instead of the gochujang and don’t use Sichuan peppercorns, which add a numbing, tingly pop to the fire. (If you like really spicy food, add dried chiles or hot pepper flakes to the recipe at the point you add the gochujang.) And if you want to make it even more luxe than it is already, follow the lead of Chang’s crew and stir 6 ounces of silken tofu into the sauce at the end.

<!--more-->

## Ingredients

* 500g ground pork
* 2 large onions, peeled and sliced
* 4 scallions, thinly sliced, for garnish
* 4 cloves garlic, peeled and chopped
* 1 inch fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
* 1 bunch kale or any hearty cooking greens, roughly chopped
* 3 tablespoons gochujang (Korean chili-bean paste)
* 1 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns
* 1 tablespoon low-sodium soy sauce
* 1 tablespoon brown sugar

## Preparation

* Heat **oil** in a wok set over medium-high heat. When it shimmers, add the **onions** and the pinch of salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions have released their moisture and are starting to brown, approximately 10 minutes. Then turn the heat down to low, and continue to cook, stirring every few minutes, until they have turned golden brown and sweet, an additional 20 minutes or so.

* Tip the onions into a bowl, and return the wok to high heat over the stove. Add more **oil**, then the **pork**, and cook, breaking the meat up with a spoon, until it is just cooked, but not yet browning, approximately 10 minutes. Add the cooked meat to the reserved onions.

* Return wok to stove over medium heat and cook the **garlic** and **ginger** in fat remaining from pork. When the garlic and ginger soften, add **gochujang**, **soy sauce**, **brown sugar** and, if using, the **Sichuan peppercorns**. Add ½ cup to 1 cup of water, enough to loosen the gochujang and make a sauce, then return pork and onions to the wok and stir to combine. Adjust seasonings.

* Bring sauce to a simmer, and add the **chopped greens**, then stir to combine and cook until they have started to soften, approximately 5 minutes.

* Garnish with the sliced **scallions**.

**Source:** [Sam Sifton via New York Times Cooking](https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1018404-mapo-ragu).
{: .notice}
